Tutorial: How to create Web Application using
Python and GPTs
Continuous Assessment 2 (CA-2): SOP
Course: Machine Learning & ANN (CS-303B)
Overview
•Assessment Type:CS-303B Project Exhibition
•Total Marks:6 Marks
•Objective:To enable students to translate theoretical knowledge into practical
AIML web applications.
Syllabus Coverage
The project exhibition will cover topics from the following units as per the course cur-
riculum:
•Unit 1:Understanding the Basics of ML (Data Pre-processing, KNN, Regression,
SVM, and Performance Metrics)
•Unit 2:Feature Engineering, Outlier Detection (Isolation Forest), and Unsuper-
vised Learning (Clustering, PCA)
•Unit 3:Ensemble Learning (Random Forest, Stacking), Hyperparameter Tuning,
and AutoML Frameworks
Implementation Guidelines
1.Project Assignment:Students will be assigned their specific project topics 15
days prior to the scheduled exhibition date.
2.Team Formation:The assessment will be conducted in teams consisting of2
studentseach.
3.Evaluation Process:The exhibition will featurecross-department judgingto
ensure an objective and diverse evaluation of the implemented AIML solutions.
Project Resources
Students are encouraged to utilize the following resources for dataset acquisition and
reference:
•Dataset Repository:UCI Machine Learning Repository
•Indian Open Datasets: India Open Dataset,AIkosh.
•Tools:Vscode, dataset, github account, streamlit account.
1

Tutorial
Step-1 : Open Gemini Google Gemini.
Step-2 : Enter the following prompt into gemini: create a ML pipeline using streamlit
dashboard that does the following in sequence The application to show horizontal
expansion of the steps with more graphically appealing and make use of the best
esthetics for dashboard 1 Initially the application will ask for the type of problem
to be solved ClassificationRegression 2 Input Data Input data from UI and ask user
to select the target feature Show the overall data shape using PCA also allow user
to select features and see the shape of the data You can also use plotly for this
2 Exploratory Data Analysis EDA Perform EDA and provide the results on the
UI 3 Data Engineering and Cleaning Provide options to do data engineering with
methods like mean median mode and compute outliers using IQR Isolation Forest
DBSCAN and OPTICS If there are outliers then ask user if he wants to remove them
Give option to user so that he can delete these data from UI 4 Feature Selection
Perform feature selection step using methods like variance threshold correlation
information gain only with target 5 Data Split Split the data into training and
testing samples 6 Model Selection ask user to select the model from the list linear
regression SVM with kernel options kmeans random forest 7 Model Training and
KFold Validation Ask for the value of K before this step 8 Performance Metrics with
checking for overfitting and underfitting 9 At the end give option to tune hyper
parameters for the mentioned models and its effect on the model performance using
gridsearch or randomsearch
Figure 1: default
Step-3 : Copy and paste the resultant code in IDE and install any dependecies asked for.
Save the code with the name pipeline.py Note: only use offline IDE’s like vscode
2

for this.
Figure 2: VS Code View
Step-4 : To execute the code run the following command:
st re am li t run pipeline . py
3

Figure 3: VS Code Terminal View
Step-5 : After the command executes successfully, then the application will automatically
open’s the webpage in the default browser.
Figure 4: VS Code Terminal View
4

Figure 5: Application running inside browser view
Step-5 : If everything worked fine and you are satisfied with the code working and all the
features are correctly performing the task. Then open streamlit website and create
an account by clicking on the top right corner icon with text ”Free”.
Figure 6: Streamlit Website
5

Step-6 : Create an account either using Google of Github.
Figure 7: Streamlit Website: Account creation
Step-7 : After successful account creation.
Figure 8: Streamlit Website: App Creation UI
6

Step-8 : After successful account creation. Click on ”Create app” icon on top right corner
of the screen.
Figure 9: Streamlit Website: App Creation UI
Step-9 : Connect to your Github Account.
Figure 10: Streamlit Website: App Creation UI
Step-10 : Upload your application on github and make it public.
7

Step-11 : Enter the following details from your github repository in the fields as mentioned
and then click deply. Deployment will give you a url that you can click and test
your application. For more information on deployment check the documentation.
After you have understood the working then play with the code and make it more
robust, so that it can be used as a full web application.
Happy Coding!!
8

